chore(examples): add one example to log request body when the status code is non 200 (#4108)
grpc-ecosystem/grpc-gateway: docs/docs/operations/logging.md

---
layout: default
title: Logging the request body pattern for a request
nav_order: 5
parent: Operations
---

# Logging the request body pattern for a request

> If you want to log the request body in the `customErrorHandler` middleware, unfortunately the request body has been consumed in the `customErrorHandler` middleware and can't be read again. To log the request body, you can use one middleware to buffer the request body before it's consumed.

Reviewer: I think we can be more general than this. How about
```suggestion
If you want to log the request body of incoming requests, you will need to buffer the body before it reaches the gateway. To log the request body, you can use a middleware `http.Handler` to buffer the request body before it's consumed.
```

Author: I will update the doc

> 1. `logRequestBody` middleware，which logs the request body when the response status code is not 200.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create a `http.Handler` middleware. The `logRequestBody` example middleware logs the request body when the response status code is not 200.
```

```go
type logResponseWriter struct {
	http.ResponseWriter
	statusCode int
}

func (rsp *logResponseWriter) WriteHeader(code int) {
	rsp.statusCode = code
	rsp.ResponseWriter.WriteHeader(code)
}

func newLogResponseWriter(w http.ResponseWriter) *logResponseWriter {
	return &logResponseWriter{w, http.StatusOK}
}

// logRequestBody logs the request body when the response status code is not 200.
func logRequestBody(h http.Handler) http.Handler {
	return http.HandlerFunc(func(w http.ResponseWriter, r *http.Request) {
		lw := newLogResponseWriter(w)

> 		body, err := io.ReadAll(r.Body)

Reviewer: Maybe add a comment here to warn users that this can consume a lot of memory
```suggestion
		// Note that buffering the entire request body could consume a lot of memory.
		body, err := io.ReadAll(r.Body)
```

		if err != nil {

> 			http.Error(w, fmt.Sprintf("grpc server read request body err %+v", err), http.StatusBadRequest)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
			http.Error(w, fmt.Sprintf("failed to read body: %v", err), http.StatusBadRequest)
```

			return
		}
		clonedR := r.Clone(r.Context())
		clonedR.Body = io.NopCloser(bytes.NewReader(body))

		h.ServeHTTP(lw, clonedR)

		if lw.statusCode != http.StatusOK {
			grpclog.Errorf("http error %+v request body %+v", lw.statusCode, string(body))
		}
	})
}
```

> 2. Wrap the `logRequestBody` middleware with the `http.ServeMux`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Wrap the gateway serve mux with the  `logRequestBody` handler:
```

Author: I will fix it

```go

>     mux := http.NewServeMux()

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    mux := runtime.NewServeMux()
    // Register generated gateway handlers
```

Author: Sorry for the typo
